INTERDIACRITICAL KEYBOARD LAYOUT

The keyboard layout with ridiculously simple and intuitive input method of every single diacritical letter — dedicated for typographers, linguists or journalists working with multiple languages.


THE PROBLEM

Full‑size physical keyboards are here to stay. They are indispensable in their speed, reliability and tactile feedback. But they're also limited to basic Latin characters, and this forces the rich world of diacritics to be entered with not quite intuitive keyboard layouts. And while each language's native layout with its few diacritics found through some key combination will fairly do, the problem arises with multiple languages at work.

Most of such single language layouts indeed give access to some foreign diacritics, but then require quite a lot, often quirky key combinations to get used to, and still it's not even a fraction of the diacritical variety. Switching between several language‑specific layouts seems, in turn, rather impractical and confusing, especially with all the layouts serving their diacritical input without single, predictable manner.


THE METHOD

The idea is an intuitive input of any diacritical letter with a basic, simple method ever required: the Option key + the base letter, followed by typing diacritic's name. Therefore pressing, say, Opt + e, followed by typing the name »acute« spits an é. There's even no need to type the entire phrase — as you type, the layout estimates diacritic name and suggests available output.

Now, with the versatility of the method, all those fancy key combinations are gone. The keyboard layout stays elegant and clear, with key's engraved labels being simply the actual input.


FEATURED DIACRITICS

Supported diacritics, to be typed in the literal form, are: acute, breve, caron (also as hacek), circumflex, diaeresis, dot, grave, macron, ogonek, ring, tilde and — with the method extensible by nature — surely more in the future.


INSTALLATION

The layout is installed simply by copying the .keylayout file into the Keyboard Layouts folder within the system's /Library or user's ~/Library, after either relog is recommended, although on newer Mac OS X not required. Enable it via the Input tab of the Language & Text (formerly International) system preferences.


PREVIEW

To preview the layout and available diacritical combinations
• without installing it, use Ukelele, a keyboard layout editor by SIL available at http://scripts.sil.org/ukelele, or
• with the layout installed — the Keyboard Viewer from the Input Source Menu Item.
